.TH "MAIL-NOTIFICATION\&.CONF" "5" "Jan 2019" "File Formats Manual"
.SH NAME
/etc/pam-accesscontrol.d/mail-notification.conf \- pam-accesscontrol configuration
file for mail notification.

.SH CONFIGURATION
To configure mail notification you will need to fill this config file. This file
should contain correlation of watched PAM services and mail contacts. 
.RE
.PP
There is no need to do some extra steps for 'enabling' or 'disabling' mail notifications.
If this file exist, by each logging pam-accesscontrol will try to parse it and figure out
regarding needing to send mails. If someone is trying to logging it via PAM service
specified in this file, notification email will send.
.RE
.PP
Right now only one PAM service per line is supported.
.PP
<MAIL_SERVER>:<IP_ADDRESS>
.RE
<PAM_SERVICE> <LIST_OF_MAIL_ADDRESSES>
.RE
<PAM_SERVICE> <LIST_OF_MAIL_ADDRESSES>

.PP
.RS 3
MAIL_SERVER
.RS 4
IP address of the MTA. This server should be able to relay mails of course.
.RE
.PP
PAM_SERVICE
.RS 4
defines PAM service that should be watched. List of PAM services/daemons could be found
in \fB/etc/pam.d/*\fP directory. Each service could be configured via pam-accesscontrol(8)
management tool.
.RE
.PP
LIST_OF_MAIL_ADDRESSES
.RS 4
Comma separated list of recipients. Space is needed between PAM service name and list of mails.
\fBNo space\fP is needed between mails.

.SH EXAMPLE
SERVER:192.168.2.1
.RE
SSHD my_email@gnu.org,your_email@example.net
.RE
LOGIN your_email@example.org

.SH LOG FILE
There is no particular log file for sending mails, but pam-accesscontrol will protocol
about all problems to syslog (even if debug modus in the main configuration file is disabled).

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexander Naumov <alexander_naumov@opensuse.org>
.PP
GitHub: https://github.com/alexander-naumov/pam-accesscontrol

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mail(1),
.BR postfix(1),
.BR sendmail(1),
.BR pam-accesscontrol(8)
.BR pam-accesscontrol.conf (5)
