.TH PAM-ACCESSCONTROL "8" "Jan 2019"
.SH NAME
PAM-accesscontrol \- PAM management system to control access to host.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.na
.B pam-accesscontrol
[
.B pam-list
]
.br
.ti +18
[
.B show-pam-info
.I SERVICE
]
.ti +18
[
.B show-pam-config
]
.ti +18
[
.B pam-configure
.I SERVICE
]
.ti +18
[
.B make-pam-clean
.I SERVICE
]
.ti +18
[
.B check-my-config
.I FILE
]


.SH DESCRIPTION
PAM-accesscontrol is the easily configurable system written in python3 to control access to
host via PAM interfaces. It makes it possible to manages access for some user, group of users
or LDAP-groups (supports FreeIPA and Active Directory) by adding just one line to the config
file. It makes it possible to be notifyed about establisching each new incoming connection
and allow or not allow it (by using notification window). PAM-accesscontrol supports and
recognizes SSH password and public key authentication and uses Syslog for every login-events.
It's still in very early stage of development.


                                          _____________
                     /= confirmation ==> |PyQt5 yes/no |          +-+-+-+
                     |                   |_____________|          +     +  <---- ...
               ______|__________          _____________           +     +  <---- ftp
  _______     |                 |        |             |          +     +  <---- sshd
 |systemd|<==>|PAM-accesscontrol| <====> |pam_python.so| <======> + PAM +  <---- login
 |_______|    |_________________|        |_____________|          +     +  <---- sddm
   |               |           |                                  +     +  <---- lightdm
   |               |           |__________                        +     +  <---- kdm
 loginctl(1)       |           |          |                       +     +  <---- ...
 provides          |           |          |                       +-+-+-+
 session info   Configfile  Logfile    Syslog


Up to verion 0.95, pam-accesscontrol configured itself during the installation process.
The configured daemons was sshd, login and display manager, automatically found in the
system. Since version 0.96 user should do it himself by using pam-accesscontrol(8).
Version 0.96 also introduced some changes to the syntax of the configuration file.
Don't forget to update it.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B pam-list
shows all PAM compartible daemons avaliable in the system.
.TP
.BI show-pam-info " service"
shows short description about specific daemon.
.TP
.B show-pam-config
shows list of all PAM compartible daemons with current configuration of pam-accesscontol.
.TP
.BI pam-configure " service"
this option appends pam-accesscontrol configuration to the configuration file of the specific daemon.
.TP
.BI make-pam-clean " service"
this option removes pam-accesscontrol configuration from the configuration file of the specific daemon. This reverse option to the "configure".
.TP
.BI check-my-config " file"
use it to execute configuration file syntax check to be sure everything fine ;-)

.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/sbin/pam-accesscontrol
Configuration management
.TP
.I /var/log/pam-accesscontrol-<YEAR>-<MONTH>.log
Logfile
.TP
.I /etc/pam-accesscontrol.d/*.conf
Configfile
.PP

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Alexander Naumov <alexander_naumov@opensuse.org>
.PP
GitHub: https://github.com/alexander-naumov/pam-accesscontrol

.SH REFERENCES
.TP
.I http://www.linux-pam.org/index.html
This is the primary distribution site for the Linux-PAM (Pluggable Authentication Modules
for Linux) project.
.TP
.I http://www.linux-pam.org/Linux-PAM-html/Linux-PAM_MWG.html
The Linux-PAM Module Writers' Guide. This manual documents what a programmer needs to know
in order to write a module that conforms to the Linux-PAM standard. It also discusses some
security issues from the point of view of the module programmer.
.TP
.I http://pam-python.sourceforge.net/
This is the primary distribution site for the pam-python project. Pam-python is a PAM Module
that runs the Python interpreter, thus allowing PAM Modules to be written in Python.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR loginctl(1),
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam (8),
.BR pam-accesscontrol.conf (5)
